content/posts/Setup Obsidian, GitHub Pages and Quartz.md, before:

---
title: Algorithm's Digital Garden and its Setup
description: How to Setup Quartz 4 Website with Obsidian to deploy on GitHub Pages
date: 2026-01-16
tags:
  - how-setup-blogging-site
  - utility
toc: false
---
# Introduction
How to deploy a website with a sync with GitHub Repository using Quartz 4. 

## What we need (for Windows)?
We need:
1. Official documentation: https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/
2. [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) v22

~~LET US BEGIN...~~
## Step 1: Cloning Repository

***Run PowerShell / Terminal in admin mode only***

Clone the Quartz Repository (at your location where you want to save your website):
`git clone https://github.com/jackyzha0/quartz.git`

## Step 2: Move into Cloned Repo

command: `cd quartz`

## Step 3: Run Node Command to Create Quartz Instance

***Do not run `npm audit fix`. This will break stuff.***
### Step 3.1 Create Instance
command: `npm i`
### Step 3.2 Create Quartz
command: `npx quartz create`

#### Step 3.2.1 Select initialize content
***I would strongly suggest to use symlink, which is going to link your files in different directory to the content.*** You just need to add path to that directory. Remember `index.md` file need to be accessible in the folder.
#### Step 3.2.2 Treat link `as shortest path`

***You are all set!***

## Step 4: Sync With GitHub
1. Open GitHub Account and Create a new Repository of any name. **Remember not to initialize the new repository with `README`, license, or `gitignore` files.
2. Once create, you will see HTTPS selected, and a link like `https://github.com/username/reponame.git`. COPY IT.
3. RUN THE FOLLOWING COMMAND:
	1. list all the repositories that are tracked
		 `git remote -v`
	2. if the origin doesn't match your own repository, set your repository as the origin 
		 `git remote set-url origin COPIED-URL`
	3. `npx quartz sync --no-pull` ***This will init push the initial code***
## Step 5: Writing Content in Quartz

1. First file that will render is `index.md`
2. Template to follow:
``` markdown
---
title: Example Title
draft: false
tags: 
	- example-tag	  
--- 

The rest of your content lives here. You can use **Markdown** here :)
```

3. Some common frontmatter fields that are natively supported by Quartz:
	- `title`: Title of the page. If it isn’t provided, Quartz will use the name of the file as the title.
	- `description`: Description of the page used for link previews.
	- `permalink`: A custom URL for the page that will remain constant even if the path to the file changes.
	- `aliases`: Other names for this note. This is a list of strings.
	- `tags`: Tags for this note.
	- `draft`: Whether to publish the page or not. This is one way to make [pages private](https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/features/private-pages) in Quartz.
	- `date`: A string representing the day the note was published. Normally uses `YYYY-MM-DD` format.

***Write `index.md` and use that file to link rest of the `.md` files.***

4. You wrote `index.md` and more files? nice!
5. RUN: `npx quartz sync` to sync with GitHub.
## Step 6: Configure
Docs: https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/configuration

**Quartz is meant to be extremely configurable, even if you don’t know any coding. Most of the configuration you should need can be done by just editing `quartz.config.ts` or changing [the layout](https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/layout) in `quartz.layout.ts`.**

**Its on you to research your need and find the best config for you**.

## Step 7: Layout Config
Docs: https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/layout

**Again on you**

## Step 8: Building your Quartz locally
RUN: `npx quartz build --serve`

## Step 9: Sync your changes to GitHub
Docs: https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/setting-up-your-GitHub-repository

RUN: `npx quartz sync --no-pull`


## Step 10: Deploy to GitHub Pages?
1. Head to “Settings” tab of your forked repository and in the sidebar, click “Pages”. Under “Source”, select “GitHub Actions”.
2. Commit these changes by doing `npx quartz sync`. This should deploy your site to `<github-username>.github.io/<repository-name>`.

## Bonus Step: How to apply themes?
1. go to website: https://github.com/saberzero1/quartz-themes
2. Select a theme from `supported-themes` 
3. once you select your theme, remember `Obsidian Theme Name`
4. go to `.github\workflows` and open `deploy.yml`
5. Add the following lines to your `deploy.yml` before the `permissions` section: (Change `<THEME-NAME>` to `latex` or Your selected theme.)
``` yaml
env:
  THEME_NAME: <THEME-NAME>
```
6. And add the following lines to your `deploy.yml` before the `build` step: (No Need to change anything, not even `$THEME_NAME`)
```yaml
- name: Fetch Quartz Theme
  run: curl -s -S https://raw.githubusercontent.com/saberzero1/quartz-themes/master/action.sh | bash -s -- $THEME_NAME
```

***FULL `deploy.yml` CODE with `latex` theme***
``` yaml
name: Algorithms by mrunalnshah to GitHub Pages
 
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - v4
      
env:
  THEME_NAME: latex
 
permissions:
  contents: read
  pages: write
  id-token: write
 
concurrency:
  group: "pages"
  cancel-in-progress: false
 
jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-22.04
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0 # Fetch all history for git info
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v4
        with:
          node-version: 22
      - name: Install Dependencies
        run: npm ci
      - name: Fetch Quartz Theme
        run: curl -s -S https://raw.githubusercontent.com/saberzero1/quartz-themes/master/action.sh | bash -s -- $THEME_NAME
      - name: Build Quartz
        run: npx quartz build
      - name: Upload artifact
        uses: actions/upload-pages-artifact@v3
        with:
          path: public
 
  deploy:
    needs: build
    environment:
      name: github-pages
      url: ${{ steps.deployment.outputs.page_url }}
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages
        id: deployment
        uses: actions/deploy-pages@v4
```


***Thanks and all hail open source,***
Mrunal Nirajkumar Shah.

Commit message:

[Update] Blog Updates
Added Space, and Added new content in Quartz blog

content/posts/Setup Obsidian, GitHub Pages and Quartz.md, after:

---
title: Algorithm's Digital Garden and its Setup
description: How to Setup Quartz 4 Website with Obsidian to deploy on GitHub Pages
date: 2026-01-16
tags:
  - how-setup-blogging-site
  - utility
toc: false
---
# Introduction
How to deploy a website with a sync with GitHub Repository using Quartz 4. 

## What we need (for Windows)?
We need:
1. Official documentation: https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/
2. [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) v22

~~LET US BEGIN...~~
## Step 1: Cloning Repository

***Run PowerShell / Terminal in admin mode only***

Clone the Quartz Repository (at your location where you want to save your website):
`git clone https://github.com/jackyzha0/quartz.git`

## Step 2: Move into Cloned Repo

command: `cd quartz`

## Step 3: Run Node Command to Create Quartz Instance

***Do not run `npm audit fix`. This will break stuff.***
### Step 3.1 Create Instance
command: `npm i`
### Step 3.2 Create Quartz
command: `npx quartz create`

#### Step 3.2.1 Select initialize content
***I would strongly suggest to use symlink, which is going to link your files in different directory to the content.*** You just need to add path to that directory. Remember `index.md` file need to be accessible in the folder.
#### Step 3.2.2 Treat link `as shortest path`

***You are all set!***

## Step 4: Sync With GitHub
1. Open GitHub Account and Create a new Repository of any name. **Remember not to initialize the new repository with `README`, license, or `gitignore` files.
2. Once create, you will see HTTPS selected, and a link like `https://github.com/username/reponame.git`. COPY IT.
3. RUN THE FOLLOWING COMMAND:
	1. list all the repositories that are tracked
		 `git remote -v`
	2. if the origin doesn't match your own repository, set your repository as the origin 
		 `git remote set-url origin COPIED-URL`
	3. `npx quartz sync --no-pull` ***This will init push the initial code***
## Step 5: Writing Content in Quartz

1. First file that will render is `index.md`
2. Template to follow:
``` markdown
---
title: Example Title
draft: false
tags: 
	- example-tag	  
--- 

The rest of your content lives here. You can use **Markdown** here :)
```

3. Some common frontmatter fields that are natively supported by Quartz:
	- `title`: Title of the page. If it isn’t provided, Quartz will use the name of the file as the title.
	- `description`: Description of the page used for link previews.
	- `permalink`: A custom URL for the page that will remain constant even if the path to the file changes.
	- `aliases`: Other names for this note. This is a list of strings.
	- `tags`: Tags for this note.
	- `draft`: Whether to publish the page or not. This is one way to make [pages private](https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/features/private-pages) in Quartz.
	- `date`: A string representing the day the note was published. Normally uses `YYYY-MM-DD` format.

***Write `index.md` and use that file to link rest of the `.md` files.***

4. You wrote `index.md` and more files? nice!
5. RUN: `npx quartz sync` to sync with GitHub.
## Step 6: Configure
Docs: https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/configuration

**Quartz is meant to be extremely configurable, even if you don’t know any coding. Most of the configuration you should need can be done by just editing `quartz.config.ts` or changing [the layout](https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/layout) in `quartz.layout.ts`.**

**Its on you to research your need and find the best config for you**.

## Step 7: Layout Config
Docs: https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/layout

**Again on you**

## Step 8: Building your Quartz locally
RUN: `npx quartz build --serve`

## Step 9: Sync your changes to GitHub
Docs: https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/setting-up-your-GitHub-repository

RUN: `npx quartz sync --no-pull`


## Step 10: Deploy to GitHub Pages?
1. Head to “Settings” tab of your forked repository and in the sidebar, click “Pages”. Under “Source”, select “GitHub Actions”.
2. Commit these changes by doing `npx quartz sync`. This should deploy your site to `<github-username>.github.io/<repository-name>`.

## Step 11: How to apply themes?
1. go to website: https://github.com/saberzero1/quartz-themes
2. Select a theme from `supported-themes` 
3. once you select your theme, remember `Obsidian Theme Name`
4. go to `.github\workflows` and open `deploy.yml`
5. Add the following lines to your `deploy.yml` before the `permissions` section: (Change `<THEME-NAME>` to `latex` or Your selected theme.)
``` yaml
env:
  THEME_NAME: <THEME-NAME>
```
6. And add the following lines to your `deploy.yml` before the `build` step: (No Need to change anything, not even `$THEME_NAME`)
```yaml
- name: Fetch Quartz Theme
  run: curl -s -S https://raw.githubusercontent.com/saberzero1/quartz-themes/master/action.sh | bash -s -- $THEME_NAME
```

***FULL `deploy.yml` CODE with `latex` theme***
``` yaml
name: Algorithms by mrunalnshah to GitHub Pages
 
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - v4
      
env:
  THEME_NAME: latex
 
permissions:
  contents: read
  pages: write
  id-token: write
 
concurrency:
  group: "pages"
  cancel-in-progress: false
 
jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-22.04
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0 # Fetch all history for git info
      - uses: actions/setup-node@v4
        with:
          node-version: 22
      - name: Install Dependencies
        run: npm ci
      - name: Fetch Quartz Theme
        run: curl -s -S https://raw.githubusercontent.com/saberzero1/quartz-themes/master/action.sh | bash -s -- $THEME_NAME
      - name: Build Quartz
        run: npx quartz build
      - name: Upload artifact
        uses: actions/upload-pages-artifact@v3
        with:
          path: public
 
  deploy:
    needs: build
    environment:
      name: github-pages
      url: ${{ steps.deployment.outputs.page_url }}
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Deploy to GitHub Pages
        id: deployment
        uses: actions/deploy-pages@v4
```


## Bonus Step: Changing the theme in the theme
There will be time when you don't like some part of the theme, or maybe don't like its colors. When that scenario arise, you don't change the theme all together, rather edit the theme.

***To edit theme, you need to know CSS.***

1. Go to: `\quartz\styles\custom.scss`
2. Add your CSS here. 

**Big Question:** How to know class-id, and attribute names? ***I would suggest to publish the website, open inspector in browser and open styles in it, and edit there and see what you need to add in your `custom.scss` to get the same result. (My Opinion).***

***Thanks and all hail open source,***  
Mrunal Nirajkumar Shah.
